README.md, before:

# Turborepo Docker starter

This is an official Docker starter Turborepo.

## Using this example

Run the following command:

```sh
npx create-turbo@latest -e with-docker
```

## What's inside?

This Turborepo includes the following:

### Apps and Packages

- `web`: a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) app
- `api`: an [Express](https://expressjs.com/) server
- `@repo/ui`: a React component library
- `@repo/logger`: Isomorphic logger (a small wrapper around console.log)
- `@repo/eslint-config`: ESLint presets
- `@repo/typescript-config`: tsconfig.json's used throughout the monorepo
- `@repo/jest-presets`: Jest configurations

Each package/app is 100% [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).

### Docker

This repo is configured to be built with Docker, and Docker compose. To build all apps in this repo:

```
# Install dependencies
yarn install

# Create a network, which allows containers to communicate
# with each other, by using their container name as a hostname
docker network create app_network

# Build prod using new BuildKit engine
COMPOSE_DOCKER_CLI_BUILD=1 DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml build

# Start prod in detached mode
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d
```

Open http://localhost:3000.

To shutdown all running containers:

```
# Stop all running containers
docker kill $(docker ps -q) && docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)
```

### Remote Caching

This example includes optional remote caching. In the Dockerfiles of the apps, uncomment the build arguments for `TURBO_TEAM` and `TURBO_TOKEN`. Then, pass these build arguments to your Docker build.

You can test this behavior using a command like:

`docker build -f apps/web/Dockerfile . --build-arg TURBO_TEAM=“your-team-name” --build-arg TURBO_TOKEN=“your-token“ --no-cache`

### Utilities

This Turborepo has some additional tools already setup for you:

- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) for static type checking
- [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) for code linting
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io) test runner for all things JavaScript
- [Prettier](https://prettier.io) for code formatting
# nextjs-monorepo

Commit message:

Update Readme with debugging notes

README.md, after:

# Notes (Debug)

- For devbox install node, pnpm, and turbo (globally)
- Make sure this is present in zshrc (otherwise pnpm will yell at you)

```sh
export PATH="/Users/hameldesai/pnpm:$PATH"
export PNPM_HOME="/Users/hameldesai/pnpm"
```

# Turborepo Docker starter

This is an official Docker starter Turborepo.

## Using this example

Run the following command:

```sh
npx create-turbo@latest -e with-docker
```

## What's inside?

This Turborepo includes the following:

### Apps and Packages

- `web`: a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) app
- `api`: an [Express](https://expressjs.com/) server
- `@repo/ui`: a React component library
- `@repo/logger`: Isomorphic logger (a small wrapper around console.log)
- `@repo/eslint-config`: ESLint presets
- `@repo/typescript-config`: tsconfig.json's used throughout the monorepo
- `@repo/jest-presets`: Jest configurations

Each package/app is 100% [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/).

### Docker

This repo is configured to be built with Docker, and Docker compose. To build all apps in this repo:

```
# Install dependencies
yarn install

# Create a network, which allows containers to communicate
# with each other, by using their container name as a hostname
docker network create app_network

# Build prod using new BuildKit engine
COMPOSE_DOCKER_CLI_BUILD=1 DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1 docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml build

# Start prod in detached mode
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d
```

Open http://localhost:3000.

To shutdown all running containers:

```
# Stop all running containers
docker kill $(docker ps -q) && docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)
```

### Remote Caching

This example includes optional remote caching. In the Dockerfiles of the apps, uncomment the build arguments for `TURBO_TEAM` and `TURBO_TOKEN`. Then, pass these build arguments to your Docker build.

You can test this behavior using a command like:

`docker build -f apps/web/Dockerfile . --build-arg TURBO_TEAM=“your-team-name” --build-arg TURBO_TOKEN=“your-token“ --no-cache`

### Utilities

This Turborepo has some additional tools already setup for you:

- [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/) for static type checking
- [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) for code linting
- [Jest](https://jestjs.io) test runner for all things JavaScript
- [Prettier](https://prettier.io) for code formatting
# nextjs-monorepo
